Post Dex Offering 
New ScalePad model to boost existing projects after launchpad


































How PDOs Work
PDO Fundraising Distribution
Project Price Benefit
Investor Protection
Secure Future with PDO: Bear Market Fundraising Solution
Extra Incentives
Use Case
FOMO Trigger
Front running attack protection
Dumper Shield
Transfer
Decentralized OTC
Gateway
Gateway SP Refund
Gas Consideration
Dumper Shield plus PDO
DAO Based
Dumper Shield Positions
First position vs second position
Dumper Shield Position Examples
Types of PDOs
Fixed market price (no upward slippage)
Dutch Auction
PDO Participation
Reverse KYC / AML / Accreditation
Solution for US investors
PDO Fees
Fee Breakdown
PDO License
PDO Tokenomics
Supply
PDO Price
Dumper Shield
Minting
100% Fee Reimbursement
Flexible 10% APY Staking
Tx Tax Fee
Private Pre-Sale
Private Pre-Sale terms
Public Reverse Pre-Sale
Public Reverse Pre-Sale terms
Extra Staking Reward through Secure Future
Actions available
PDOs
PDO terms
Short term
Long term
Fundraising Allocation
Scarcity
New Communities














 
 
Current Market overview 
In the early days of 2017, projects were able to raise large sums of money, sometimes in the hundreds of millions, based solely on a whitepaper. However, by 2019, after investors had been scammed by fake projects with promising whitepapers, the demand for projects changed. Investors started to demand to see a working testnet product, and as a result, the amount raised by projects dropped to tens of millions. By 2021, the average amount raised by projects had decreased further to just millions, as investors were cautious of high dumping by large whale investors and demanded projects having a low market cap valuation that had room for appreciation and more diversified and limited investment amount per holder.


Currently, the market is familiar with the concept of Initial DEX Offerings (IDOs) as a way for new projects to secure seed funding and launch on decentralized exchanges (DEXs) such as Uniswap and PancakeSwap. However, many projects that raised funds through a presale can't rely on the liquidity provided by users, since this liquidity is not sustainable when those liquidity providers become dumpers. This forces the project to allocate a significant portion of that funding towards liquidity pools on these DEXs, leaving a smaller budget for development. This often results in projects that are copycat projects with only small upgrades and changes, and development times of just a few weeks to 6 months.


Some of these projects that raised a small amount during seed rounds and were able to show traction with performance, income stream, or user base, are forced to conduct follow-up rounds as private rounds. This means that projects welcome venture capitalists (VCs) in exchange for undisclosed incentives over the price in the secondary market, which can even grant those VCs the ability to become dumpers and harm early holders.


On the other hand, the majority of projects that are unable to conduct subsequent fundraising events are sometimes forced to withdraw funds from liquidity pools, a move commonly referred to as a "rug pull." This can also include selling tokens on secondary markets, which can lead to panic and massive dumping among investors. Studies have shown that 92% of blockchain projects have failed, with an average lifespan of 1.22 years [1], leaving token holders with no redemption.




Quantum problems
Unlike traditional startups that can raise funds through multiple rounds of funding (pre-seed, A, B, etc.) as they progress in development, decentralized crypto projects are more limited in their ability to raise funds in this way. Once decentralized crypto projects launch their tokens and they start trading, they are unable to conduct another public sale and offer discounts to new investors, as this can cause panic and decrease the token's value in the market. This creates a quantum problem for projects as they are unable to continue raise funds from the public but on the other hand, it would be safer and more beneficial for the project and current token holders if the project could continue raising funds from the public rather than from private VC rounds.
A Prediction 
Based on extrapolation of historical trends, it is reasonable to assume that during the next bull market, investors will treat projects more like they treat the startup industry, with an average raise of hundreds of thousands. Additionally, investors will likely demand to see a working product before investing.


Those projects that will raise millions and above will be able to justify such raises based on the track record and experience of the founders or the success of the project with its user base or income stream.


If nothing addresses those barriers, the industry innovation may slow down and we'll start to see a lot of look-alike projects with no differentiations. The failure rate will likely increase, as many projects will not be able to gain traction based on a small presale, with the majority of funds allocated to liquidity pools.




Barriers to be addressed


Follow up fundraising issue 
In the current market structure, crypto projects are limited to follow-up fundraising via private rounds. This is because usually, selling tokens requires incentives such as offering a discount under the market price. The problem is that some new investors that join a project as follow-up rounds may demand better terms and access to liquidity before the current token holders, which can lead to token price dumping or crashing.


Sustainable liquidity issue 
Many projects solicit users to park their funds as liquidity in a pool in exchange for staking rewards. However, these liquidity providers (LP) are not loyal to the project and often cash out when the market goes down or move their liquidity into new projects that offer better rewards. This leaves the project with no sustainable liquidity and high slippage.


Slippage issue 
When users engage with a decentralized exchange (DEX) to buy or sell tokens, slippage applies due to the structure of the liquidity pools. This means that the buyer or seller never receives the market price of the token, but instead receives an average price based on the slippage,  This can result in a loss of buy pressure and scaling the project adoption and success 


Price appreciation issue 
When projects have low liquidity pools, either because they are new projects or new to different blockchains, they may be at risk of front-running attacks. In a front-running attack, an attacker uses a higher transaction fee to ensure that their own transaction is processed before any other transaction. This allows the attacker to profit from the price change by executing their own trade before the original trade is processed. Low slippage and high price impact can create an incentive for front-running attacks, as the attacker can still take advantage of the price change even if the slippage is low. This means that every time a front-running attack takes place, the token price does not benefit from its full potential appreciation, which can be a problem for the project's scaling.




Post Dex Offering 
The PDO (Post Dex Offerings) is a revolutionary solution that combines fundraising, strategic staking, and liquidity mining in a fully decentralized suite of products. It is designed to serve existing projects in both bullish and bearish markets, making it the world's first scale-pad of its kind.


How PDO Work
PDO is a layer that works on top of existing decentralized exchanges (DEXs) and serves existing projects that already have some active liquidity pools on any Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) chain, even if it's a brand new liquidity pool on a new DEX. 


The PDO helps projects to sell their token reserve or team tokens in order to increase liquidity, raise follow-up funds for the project, and at the same time, increase the token's market value and total value locked for the community.


PDO is driving the token price in real-time from the pool on the DEX that it's trading on. This means that unlike initial DEX offerings (IDOs) that usually have a fixed sale price with a limited period of time, the PDO has a dynamic price that can run all year long while the price never goes above or below the current market value, even when the market is volatile.
Follow up fundraising solution 
PDO allows projects to claim the proceeds from token sales as a follow-up fundraising solution. This means that the project can choose how much of the funds will be split between the team and the liquidity pools. The team can claim 0% to 100% of the token sale proceeds as long as the project's liquidity pool maintains no less than 200% (2:1 ratio) of funds over the fundraising to avoid scenarios where buyers buy into a token with insufficient liquidity in the pool. This fundraising can run every day all year long for an unlimited time. This can allow projects to raise funds on a daily basis as the project continues to scale instead of raising unrealistic funds from the beginning, with unrealistic market cap valuations.


Sustainable liquidity solution 
When a project creates a PDO with the intention of increasing and improving the token liquidity pool, the proceeds from the sale will be split 50%/50%. Half of the proceeds will be used to buy the token from the liquidity pool, while the other half will be used to pair with those new tokens and push them back into the pool as liquidity provider (LP) tokens. These LP tokens will be owned by the project as sustainable liquidity and will be available for the project to claim 30 days after the liquidity has been created or 30 days after the last staking period ends, whichever is later.




Slippage solution 
When buyers purchase tokens from the PDO, they are buying directly from the project and not through the pool like with AMM models. This means that buyers can spend any amount of money at a fixed price for all the tokens with zero slippage.


This solution effectively highjacking buying power from the DEX to the PDO, as it doesn't make sense for a buyer to interact with the DEX directly, especially if the project is also offering zero slippage tokens with a built-in staking APY.


Price appreciation solution 
Since the price of the token in the PDO is driven in real-time from the pool it's trading on, every time a buyer purchases a token from the PDO or directly from the pool, the price of the token in the pool increases and is displayed on the PDO as the current token price. So, when the second buyer makes a purchase, the price keeps increasing.
To ensure that the token price continues to increase at its full potential, the PDO contract has a built-in anomaly detection feature that checks the average token market price in the pool over a certain period (for example, over 5 minutes). If the token price increases more than 1% over that average, it limits the slippage to 1%. This means that the PDO may delay pushing funds to the pool until unusual behavior is no longer detected to avoid front-running attacks.
This solution is similar to what major credit card companies employ. Credit card companies automatically block cards if they have been used in a different country or with seemingly irregular behavior. This means there is no incentive for bots to abuse pool deposits that associated with PDO.






Whale holders Solution
Team members, advisors, and even whale holders with large token holdings, who used to sell their tokens on the secondary market, can now use the PDO to sell their tokens, with or without APY incentives. This benefits buyers by providing a slippage-free offer, while also allowing the seller to access funds without negatively impacting the token's price in the secondary market.




Types of PDOs
Fixed sale 
A fixed sale allows investors to purchase tokens immediately at the current market price. By deploying funds, all tokens will be sold at the same price with zero slippage.
Dutch Auction


A Dutch auction allows the market to determine the offering price, providing protection against price manipulation. At the end of the auction, funds and tokens are distributed only after verifying that the total investment does not exceed the total token supply's face value. This ensures that users do not pay more than the token's market price. Additionally, users may also benefit from a potential discount as projects must sell the entire token supply once the minimum fundraising goal (soft cap) is reached and the auction period ends.






Example


* The XYZ project is launching a PDO via a Dutch auction.
* A total token supply of 20 million is being deposited.
* The current market price of the XYZ token is $0.10.
* The project sets a soft cap of $1 million and a hard cap based on the actual token price (which currently is $2 million).
* During the auction period, interested investors deploy $1.2 million into the PDO smart contract, which holds the funds pending.
* As the auction progresses, the token price in the market fluctuates and drops to $0.08.
* This means that the total 20 million tokens are worth $1.6 million.
* Once the auction period ends and since the soft cap is reached, the PDO smart contract distributes all 20 million tokens worth $1.6 million to the buyers in exchange for the $1.2 million investment.
* This results in a 25% discount for the investors compared to the current market price.
* However, if the market price of XYZ drops to $0.06, meaning the 20 million tokens are worth $1.2 million, the auction ends immediately as it reached the hard cap.
* In another scenario, if the total investment is less than the soft cap ($1 million), regardless of the market price fluctuation, the auction ends by refunding all investors the funds back and canceling the auction.


EVM
The PDO is a layer that operates on top of any decentralized exchange (DEX) that runs on an Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) blockchain, including popular platforms such as Uniswap, SushiSwap, PancakeSwap, and even newly created DEXs. [2] 








Bear Market leverage 
Typically, when the market or the future of a project is uncertain, investors tend to direct their funds into more conservative 3rd party vehicles such as passive lending and staking protocols like Venus, Compound, Yearn Finance, Curve, etc.
The PDO, however, includes a Secure Future layer that work around this concern by offering a quantum solution to stake the funds with these protocols while simultaneously leveraging them to invest in the PDO. This allows the investors to make informed decisions about which positions they want to keep in the future, after the market becomes clearer. 


This multi-position solution makes the Secure Future the world's first tool that allows investors to invest without investing.


Secure Future
The Secure Future is an intermediate smart contract that allows investors to push funds to 3rd party staking protocols while also holding the APY offered by the project's PDO. The Secure Future holds both positions until the PDO period is over. During that time, investors can either claim or cancel the Secure Future.
If the investor chooses to cancel the Secure Future, the smart contract will release the held APY back to the PDO, and will send the exact amount and type of wrap tokens created by the 3rd party staking protocol (such as cETH, vBNB etc) to the investor's wallet, which would be equivalent to the scenario where the investor stakes directly with those protocols.[3] 
If the investor chooses to claim the Secure Future, the smart contract will sell the wrap tokens back to the 3rd party and use the proceeds to push into the PDO based on the current token price. The investor will also benefit from the locked APY that was held by the Secure Future during the time of investment. If there are any rewards from the 3rd party for the staking period between the time of investment and the time of claiming the Secure Future, those rewards will be used to buy tokens from the pool and burn them into a zero address, benefiting the token community holders.
The Secure Future allows investors to secure the future of any project's success or miss opportunity without actually being exposed to any downside. 


Example


* An investor is interested in a project XYZ that is running a PDO for 365 days with a current token price of $0.1 and a 100% APY incentive, but unsure about its future success
* Compound is offering low-risk staking with a 10% APY
* Instead of choosing between taking a risk and investing in the project or staking with Compound, the investor can use the Secure Future smart contract to have both
* The investor pushes $10,000 to the Secure Future, which acts as an intermediate smart contract and holds 100,000 tokens offered by the project XYZ and at the same time, it will deposit the $10,000 on behalf of the investor in Compound
* After 364 days the project's token price increases by 10x and trades on the secondary market for $1, the investor can surrender their rights on Compound and claim the Secure Future for an 11,000% ROI
* In another scenario, if the project token price drops by 50% and trades on the secondary market for $0.05, the investor can still surrender their rights on Compound and claim the Secure Future for a 150% ROI
* In both cases, it makes sense for the investor to surrender its rights on Compound's 10% APY and claim the Secure Future reward which is worth 150% or 11,000% ROI. 
* Anytime an investor surrenders their rights to Compound, the PDO smart contract will use the APY rewards to buy XYZ tokens from the pool and burn them into a zero address, benefiting the XYZ token community holders.






FOMO Trigger
It is possible for the general public to view the amount of funds in the Secure Future smart contract, which could lead to speculation that the token price may rise once the funds are deployed to the pool. This can lead to a natural Fear of Missing Out (FOMO) among the public to purchase the token before the pending Secure Futures are executed.


Reverse KYC 
Even though a project may already exist, it may still be required to comply with regulations in certain jurisdictions. This means that when a public sale takes place, a Know Your Customer (KYC) and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) process must be implemented to prevent access from unauthorized buyers. However, the project can also implement a new solution called Reverse KYC, which is more user-friendly for investors without compromising legal compliance. [5]


Reverse KYC allows investors who have not yet completed a KYC to invest immediately via the PDO, but all investments are pending and locked indefinitely until the investor fully completes the KYC/AML and potentially accreditation process if needed.


Investors can also opt to follow the traditional KYC/AML process in order to gain access to the whitelist before investing.




Solution for US investors
The SEC regulation in the US is based on the Howey test and therefore even tokens that are a utility in other countries may still be considered a security in the US. The PDO allows projects to comply with US regulations by selling tokens where 100% of the funds go to the liquidity pool and the LP tokens are burned or controlled by the DAO.
USE OF PROCEEDS 
Projects can elect to split the PDO proceeds between the liquidity pool and or the team and or to buyout early investors behind the Dumper shield
Read more about the Dumper shield 
PDO Fees
PDO charges a 2.5% fee directly from the public but reimburses the public 100% with PDO tokens.
An additional 2.5% success fee is charged from the project’s fundraising
Secure Future charges a 2.5% fee on APY earned through if Secure Future is executed in lieu of investment.


Use of fees breakdown
The fees generated from PDO finance are used as follows: 80% is used to buy PDO tokens, which increases the value of the token and decreases the total supply. 20% goes to Qwantum Finance Labs as a licensing fee for the PDO finance technology and to support the project.


